Rotoscoping;#ANIMATION CAREER#CAREER IN COMPUTER#CREATIVE CAREER ;Rotoscoping is one of the oldest animation techniques invented by Max Fleischer in 1914. In Rotoscoping live action video is traced to create animation that mimics live action. Rotoscoping involves creating animated shapes which are used to isolate or mark elements in footage such as characters vehicles buildings etc. This method of creating selections allows the artist to perform specific operations like color correction effects etc. on these elements. Rotoscoping is a process in which animators used to capture realistic human movement by drawing over film footage of live actors for using it in animated films. The action is traced just to get the lines needed to capture the image attempting to keep consistent line work from frame to frame while following the live action video's motion. These lines are then transferred to cells and painted as in normal traditional animation;Animation;#ANIMATION CAREER#CAREER IN COMPUTER#CREATIVE CAREER ;Every one knows Mickey mouse Donald Duck Tom and Jerry and Stuart little - some animated characters that always delight and entertain us. Do you know how these characters were born and how it is possible to create wonders with the art of drawing. And the answer is 'animation'- one of the fastest growing and most in-demand industries in the world. Multi media and Animation are among the major hunted jobs of the 21st century. Multimedia alias multiple media as the name suggests is an enormous field that uses more than one medium of communication. It is an art that merges text images graphics animation audio and video to create virtual magic. Animation is only a component of multimedia.;Gaming Industry;#CAREER IN COMPUTER #CREATIVE CAREER #ENTERTAINMENT CAREER ;Gaming is one of the largest segment of the entertainment industry and a multi billion dollar one flourishing widely across the world. It has become one of the most highly sought after career in today's modern world with the growing demand for computer mobile and video games. Wide access of internet has also created a huge demand for online games and with the advent of greater technology this industry is growing at a firm fast pace. Gaming as such started with classic video games in 2D but early 2000 saw the development of the more popular 3D platform. But 2D game design software has seen a revival in recent times following the development of mobile apps. ;Computer Systems Analyst;# CAREER IN COMPUTER #IT Career;System analysts are IT Professionals who specialize in analyzing and designing information systems. Systems analyst generally work in the computer department of a company providing research and information necessary to maintain an up-to-date computer system. System analysts examine IT systems and processes and recommend improvements. A computer systems analyst study an organizations existing computer systems and procedures and design information system solutions to help the organization operate more efficiently and effectively.The main responsibility of Computer Systems Analysts is to ensure that computer systems are optimally functioning. They manage a lot of tasks which can include choosing and configuring hardware and software matching technology to users needs monitoring and testing the system in operation and troubleshooting problems after implementation. They discuss their findings with the client and then design an appropriate improved IT solution.;Cloud Computing as a Career;#CAREER IN COMPUTER#IT Career;A career in cloud computing is one of the new career options in the IT sector which has bright job prospects. Cloud computing or the cloud is a colloquial expression used to describe a variety of different types of computing concepts that involve a large number of computers connected through a real-time communication network such as the Internet. In simple words the term 'cloud computing' refer to performing computer tasks using services delivered entirely over the Internet.Cloud computing is the latest technology that is set to make lives easier for people working in the tech-giant organizations and the IT sector who keep dealing with vast amount of data and information on a regular basis. Cloud computing technology is all set to revolutionize the IT industry in India as well as abroad and also the lives of people working with it. Cloud computing consists of hardware and software resources made available on the Internet as managed third-party services. Cloud computing means a type of Internet-based computing where different services such as servers storage and applications are delivered to an organization's computers and devices through the Internet. In cloud computing large pools of computer systems share an IT infrastructure enabling products services and solutions to be accessed and consumed in real-time over the Internet typically via a subscription model. This technology allows for much more efficient computing by centralizing storage memory processing and bandwidth.;Intelligence Service;#INVESTIGATIVE CAREER #GOVERNMENT SERVICE  ;Intelligence Services with the government provide ample career opportunities especially in the current scenario where corruption crime and terrorist activities rule the world.A job with the Intelligence service is one of the most difficult professions to enter into as well as it is tough on the job too. As everyone knows the career requires hardworking and sincere candidates who are ready to work under any given condition and circumstance. There is a constant need for candidates in intelligence services to tackle corruption terrorism and other anti social elements and there are many intelligence agencies as well which work at different levels.An intelligence agency is a governmental agency that is devoted to information gathering for purposes of national security and defense. Means of information gathering may include spying communication interception cryptanalysis cooperation with other institutions and evaluation of public sources. The assembly and propagation of this information is known as intelligence analysis. ;CBI Officer;#INVESTIGATIVE CAREER #GOVERNMENT SERVICE ;Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is India's premier investigating agency responsible for a wide variety of criminal and national security matters. It was established on 1 April 1963 and evolved from the Special Police Establishment (SPE) founded in 1941. Later it was brought under the Home Ministry of the Government of India. This organisation works on referral cases from Home Ministry or when specially called for by the Supreme Court or High Court. The Central Bureau of Investigation has emerged as the most important investigative body for serious crimes from murder to match fixing. It is the official Interpol unit for India.CBI is a specialized agency meant for investigation of crime relating to Corruption by Public Servants under the control of the Central Government serious economic offences and frauds and sensational crime having inter-state/all-India ramifications. CBI does not take up investigation of general and routine nature of crime as the Police forces of the State and Union Territories are meant to investigate such crime.;Railway Services;#GOVERNMENT SERVICE CAREER #RAILWAY CAREER ;Indian Railways known as the 'Lifeline of our Nation' is the World's fourth largest railway network spanning more than sixty four thousand kilometers of track. This major mode of transportation for both freight and passengers were first introduced to India in 16th April 1853 when the train with 14 railway carriages and 400 guests was flagged off from Mumbai to Thane.Administered by the Railway Board Indian railway has a financial commissioner five members and a chairman. It is divided into seventeen zones which is headed by a General Manager (GM) who reports directly to the Railway Board. Each of these zones are further sub-divided into certain number of divisions - under the control of Divisional Railway Managers (DRM) each having a divisional headquarter. Every division has certain number of technical and non-technical departments which form the base structure on which the railways function. Technical departments comprise of civil technical and mechanical engineering signaling and telecom and several others dealing with similar discipline. The non- technical departments include general services such as accounts personnel management Railway protection Force (RPF) or security and traffic services. Further down are the Station Masters who control individual stations and the train movement through the track territory under their stations administration.;Architectural Engineering;# ENGINEERING CAREER #CREATIVE CAREER ;Architecture the science of building is the visualisation of building blocks. It is the area of study which deals with the designing and planning of buildings and structures and the spaces between them. Architecture is a highly competitive and multi-disciplinary profession which involves a variety of tasks at work. This is a field which covers various fields including spatial design aesthetics safety management material management etc.Architects are the licensed professionals trained in the art and science of building. They are involved in all the phases of the building construction i.e the functional safety economical and has to satisfy the needs of its occupants.;Aeronautical Engineering;# ENGINEERING CAREER ;Aeronautical / Aerospace Engineering is one of the most challenging fields of engineering with a wide scope for growth. This field deals with the development of new technology in the field of aviation space exploration and defence systems. It specialises in the designing construction development testing operation and maintenance of both commercial and military aircraft spacecrafts and their components as well as satellites and missiles.As Aerospace engineering involves design and manufacture of very high technology systems the job requires manual technical as well as mechanical aptitude. Aeronautical engineer's usually work in teams under the  supervision of senior engineers bringing together their skills and technical expertise. Though highly paid the work is very demanding. An aeronautical engineer needs to be physically fit and fully dedicated to his work. One needs to be alert have an eye for detail and should have a high level of mathematical precision to be successful.;
